So you had done so well in Venezuela, and that's why
you think that they chose you for that job, because
you would oversee this duty. Yes. That probably
came out on my record. In
fact, the Venezuela Army had asked for me to return
to Venezuela. Really? Yeah.
But the Army wouldn't? No. And I didn't feel at that
time I should go back. But it never really was
seriously considered. Now what were your first
impressions when you arrived in Yugoslavia in
June 1959? Well of course I went with my family and
my first impression was, on the first day, was by
golly I can't use this language because I had to.
And we went in of course through Trieste,
Ljubljana, and Zagreb to Belgrade. To tell you the
truth, it was very obvious you're in another
country when you leave Italy. Oh, yeah. Very
obvious. It's just like you can go out here and look
at a piece of land and look across the fence and it's
obvious that's somebody else's across the fence.
The people weren't dressed as well. The buildings
were not maintained as well. The roads were not as
good. The facilities just didn't look like that
they'd been taken care of. There wasn't much new in
general in terms of structures.
It just was a little bit depressing, to tell you the
truth. What were your functions? You said that
basically you were on your own. What did you do with
your time? Basically on your own. Oh, we were busy.
Again, my primary function was intelligence.
How many did you have in your stay out? I had two
officers and two enlisted men and a civilian. And
were you housed in the embassy? No, we had quarters
designated by the Yugoslav Army for the U.S.
Attaché, and very adequate, by the way, a big old
villa on about two acres of land, probably. Just
before we left, they took much of that land away.
And your family could see it? It was really pretty
extravagant. Oh, yes. And that's where my family
and I lived. And we were We had a staff of servants
because, well, to get into the functions, first of
all, you've got to have servants if you fulfill
this function, this job, by the way, because the
wife is just as committed, really, basically, as
you are. And she, by the way, looked at just as
carefully, if not more so, than the officer when
this selection is made to send you on attache duty.
And the reason I say she's looked at more carefully
is because there's a record on me, but there's not a
record on her in the files.
Secondly, after the intelligence function, and
it can be put first if your ambassador wants it to
be, you're an advisor to the ambassador. You're a
member of his staff. You head his army section.
Thirdly, you are a diplomatic representative to
the Yugoslav Army. I'm getting my countries mixed
up here. In other words, I think in my two years
there, I had one formal message to deliver to the
Army of Venezuela. You mean Yugoslavia? I mean
Yugoslavia. What was that?
You know, I don't even remember what the subject
was, but I know at the time it was a ticklish
subject. thing wasn't great significance, but it
was sensitive. And so I delivered that formally
from our chief of staff to their chief of staff. The
rest of the time it was all verbal, but I
represented my army, their army, not only from
office to office and message to message, but also
socially, of course. I was also part of the
as a member of the diplomatic community, you get
into this whole diplomatic social scheme of
things, and it sometimes is very, very
overbearing. So how did we do this job? Because the
United States and Yugoslav governments were on
good terms. Tito, of course, was the dictator
president. This was in 1959 that I joined, which is
about 10 years after Tito broke from the Russians.
It was about two years after our military training
mission, MAG, Military Assistance Group, left.
And I had, by the way, the residual functions of
that military assistance group, which didn't
amount to a great deal. And Yugoslavia had to
struggle to survive that break with the Russians.
And our assistance to them was very important, the
economic assistance as important as the military
assistance. What the military assistance did was
give them credibility of military capability so
that the Russians didn't intervene. And as
history shows us now, they probably wish they had
at the time, because the next one that cropped up
was neighbor Hungary, and they took them just like
that.
At the time that
Yugoslavia broke from the Russian common form,
it was estimated that three-fourths of their
trade was with the Russian communist bloc, and 25%
with the rest of the world. Well, when they broke,
this had to be reversed. They continued to trade
some with their neighbors in the communist world,
but they were basically cut off from trade with the
organized communist group. And so this was a great
struggle for them, and this led, in my opinion, to
the perception later that Yugoslav communism is
different. Yugoslav communism is not so bad. And
the reason I say that I think that's what led to this
misimpression here and in other parts of the world
is that they had to adapt their matter of means of
conducting commerce to the way we do it. Sure. And
this even became influenced within the country,
not just at their ports, in a way. And this did make
some difference in the economic picture within
Yugoslavia. And of course, once this switch was
made, they became more prosperous, I would say.
Because at the time we left Yugoslavia, we could
see more consumer goods available to the Yugoslav
people by far than we saw when we traveled in
Bulgaria and Romania, for example. And those are
the only other two common exceptions. Who was the
ambassador, the American ambassador? The
ambassador, when I went to Yugoslavia, was
Ambassador Karl Rankin, and he was succeeded by
Ambassador George Kennan, who's a very famous
person. Oh, yeah, he is. I know George Kennan. I
admired them both a great deal. Ambassador Rankin
had come there from Formosa. He'd been ambassador
to Nationalist China for years.
He was, of course, a career diplomat. And Kennan
succeeded him just a matter of months before I
left. And we had some very interesting
experiences with both of them. What were your
impressions of these two men? My impressions were
that they were real professionals and highly
experienced, and we were fortunate to have them.
Ambassador Rankin was one of the calmest. We
didn't have any great uproars in our relations
when we were there. He was real steady and very much
respected by the Yugoslav. Wonderful
personality, a very kind man, pleasant to be
around, pleasant to be with. I hunted with him a
great deal. He loved to hunt, particularly big
game, and when he learned that I loved to hunt, I
arranged several hunts for him. And we never had
more than four in the party. You arranged these
hunts with the Yugoslav authorities? Through the
Yugoslav authorities. And they had, by the way,
some of the finest hunting in the world there for
particularly the
stag deer, the red deer, and the roebuck, they call
them over there. The ambassador was particularly
anxious to get a bear. They had the big brown bear.
We went bear hunting twice, but neither of us ever
got a bear. Did you ever see one? Yes, we saw them,
but we didn't see any of the boars. Now, you could
take a female if she didn't have a cub, but I never
saw a female alone with what young were there, and I
didn't want to shoot one that might have still had a
dependent cub. When you got up in the mountains and
you were hunting, how did you get along? How were
the people? How did they receive you up there? Some
of the most interesting experiences I had were on
these hunts with the people. Let me say a little
bit. We're going to get to Ambassador Kennan
later? All right, fine.
As a matter of fact, there is a very stringent law in
Yugoslavia and all the communist countries, and
we have similar laws but not quite so stringent,
about giving information to foreigners. And the
law is almost so severe in Yugoslavia to say that
you don't even talk to a military attache. It's not
quite that stringent. Well, you didn't wear your
uniform out there, did you? No, but I would never
put a person in jeopardy by disguising my
identity. I would always, when I came into the
company
of Yugoslavs that I thought might, well, I just
always identified myself. Now, that meant that
the only time that I could really have frank
conversations
with people, citizens, or even some of the
military
was when it was one-on-one.
And I never felt comfortable, as spooky as this may
sound, it's true, unless we were out of doors. In
fact, when I briefed Ambassador Kennan, we went to
the garden of the embassy and walked and strolled
and talked. You've got to assume that if you're in a
building you normally, or the person you're
talking to normally habitates, you're going to be
heard. But anyway, on these hunts, I got to meet
many of the simple people. And you can learn a lot
from the simple people.
And of course, the Yugoslav people, like most
people, they're very fine people. They're very
friendly to me and all Americans because nearly
all of them have got a relative of some kind in
America, and they think this is paradise, and
they're all rich. Oh, yeah. And they are terribly
poor by and large in Yugoslavia. But on these
hunts, I largely met a few functionaries, but my
real enjoyment was some of the peasants. And
they're very solid people. conversation with a
man who was sort of my gun bearer assigned and we
were alone a lot he was born and raised out there you
see when you go bear hunting now you go as far as you
can on wheels and you like likely you're going to
have to get on a horse to finish your trip and so
you're up there with the people who are pretty well
isolated and they feel much more free than the
citizens down in in the cities and towns that are
dealing with the communist apparatus,
government apparatus. But when this fellow
described to me that he had what amounted to, I
think, 10 hectares of land, Yugoslavia, and I'm
digressing, but it ties in here,
found that they had no chance, the communist
government had no chance to communize farming the
land. And so they didn't even try. But what they did
do was pass a law of inheritance. And by golly, ours
is getting damn near as bad. The law said that you
can only inherit 10 hectares or less. Well, all of
these estates are quickly being, you know, these
old land holdings are quickly being reduced to 10
hectares as inheritance occurs. And when you get
under 10 hectares, there are very few people who
can make a living on it anymore. But they can exist.
And this old peasant said that he's happier there
than anybody in Yugoslavia because, he says, I've
got my land, I've got my cattle, I've got my horse,
I've got my dogs, I've got my family, and I've got
the shumadija, the forest. His land was on the edge
of this huge forest where we went in to hunt. And he
says, when I walk in the forest, I feel a free man.
Who owned the forest? The government. Then he
tells me, I ask him, he grows basically on the land
grain and food.
And he went into detail to tell me what he earned
from that grain. And it turns out that when it He's
made all of his tax payments, some of which can be
paid in kind like in grain. He would have about a
third of what he raised. I mean, that's gross. Then
he has to pay a tax on his land. That's his crop
thing. He has to pay a tax on his cattle. He said, I
even have to pay a tax on my dog.
And you get a very good picture of how little
anybody on the land in Yugoslavia can ever realize
and what they've done to gradually gain control of
the vast part of the agricultural land in
Yugoslavia. Now, that ties right in. You also get
from these people when you talk to them what the
effect of the police influences and
effectiveness. And I saw that firsthand because
I had a young bachelor sergeant who naturally made
acquaintance with Yugoslav girls from time to
time, and almost inevitably, we wouldn't hear
about all of them, I'm sure, but certainly the
second date he'd have with a girl, When he took her
home, the police would be there right after he
left, arrest her, and grill her, and sometimes
mistreat her. Really? Oh, yes. You know, they're
not supposed to talk back, but we'd get it back
occasionally through the, I mean, I can cite two or
three instances of that. I can cite, that's
firsthand, you might say firsthand knowledge,
but anyway. I saw enough to know that the police
system is so efficient. You can talk and fuss about
the price of eggs and the fact that there's not a
decent bus system in Belgrade or
this, that, and the other, but boy, don't talk
about the government because somebody hears you.
And if I can continue this digression to get back to
this peasant, I
had a language school instructor, former
Yugoslav. He immigrated to this country when he
was a young man. Come to visit Belgrade, and he
wrote me he was coming. He had a brother who was
married and had a child in Belgrade. I'd never met
him, of course. And when he came, I offered to His
brother had no transportation. Very few people
had an automobile. And this friend, former
instructor, wanted to visit some of the areas
around that he grew up in and knew. And so I offered
my car. And of course, he wouldn't drive it, so I'd
send my chauffeur to take him places, or take him
myself. Well, in the course of this, I had him and
his wife and his brother wife and son over for
dinner. Then they invited us out. Each time, and
one time I remember we went to the big monument
there that's a famous place. We went various
places, and we'd always invite, when we picked
them up, we'd invite the brother to go along. So I
guess four or five times I would return him with his
brother
Each time, the brother would ask me to put him off at
a different place, sometimes as much as two blocks
away from his apartment. Because it's true. So no
one would see. It is absolutely true that out
of every ten people, there's at least one
listening
for the system. Mm-hmm. and I'm sure that it works.
I know that it works. Anyway, even as far and remote
as that peasant was, he felt that influence. I
guess what he really told me was that he only feels
free when he's out in that forest. Nobody knows
where he is. Nobody sees him. Tell me, what kind of
man was George Kennan? He was a splendid
ambassador. and a very brilliant man, I felt, and I
was there just a matter of months with him. But he
came in very ambitious to really pull Yugoslavia
to an accord with us, not an alliance, but a better
friendship, because Yugoslavia was truly now
that government. We were friendly. But
Yugoslavia was very instrumental in the Third
World Movement. Sure. In the non-committed
movement. And neutrals. And neutrals. And
so Mr. Kennan felt that, in fact they were doing our
policies some damage. And I remember first walk in
the garden with Mr. Kennan. He had each of his
section chiefs brief him on the situation, what we
thought, and so forth. He wanted your ideas in
addition to your information. And while I was
military, I had to tell you, I was most interested
in, outside of my area, I was most interested in the
political section's work and followed and worked
closely with them on that. I had gone down to the
square in Belgrade to hear Tito make a speech. to
the people after he'd visited the Western
Hemisphere, visited the United States. And what
he told those people angered me. He was very
critical of the United States and our policies and
the way we treat Mexico and one thing or the other.
He didn't sound like a friend at all. And I guess
this was just before Kennan got there. And that
made a great impression on me. I could understand,
see? the language he was speaking.
And that really wasn't intended for our ears, and
their press doesn't necessarily report it that
way. But I remember in briefing, Mr. Ken and I
brought that up. And I said, I cannot believe that
we have a chance of ever really being friends with a
communist country. And I thought this was the
epitome of the evidence. But nonetheless, he was
not deterred in his objectives. And I understand
that he left Yugoslavia in great disappointment
because things went from bad to worse. And as a
matter of fact, they had the Unaligned Nations
Conference there in Belgrade toward the end of his
tour when Yugoslavia led them to pronouncements
of policy that were even more clearly contrary to
our interests. Now would you, did you ever have an
opportunity to meet Tito? Yes, met him several
times. And what, tell me about that. What were your
impressions? Marshal Tito was a very impressive
person, of course, just his presence, but
whatever you think of him, As a communist, you've
got to think of him as an accomplished man. And
you've got to give him some respect for that. And I
did. And personally, he's pleasant. I never spent
a great deal of time with him, but I'd met him. Well,
when Mr. Kennan came to present his credentials, I
accompanied Mr. Kennan to Brioni, the island of
Brioni, to present his credentials to Tito. And
Tito gave him a great deal of time and, of course,
great respect because Mr. Kennedy was then well
known as a very prominent thinker in terms of
foreign affairs. And we met him, met him and his
wife at official functions several times, and of
course observed him in ceremonies a number of
times. He's a very interesting man. I might say I
also traveled many of his battle areas of World War
II when he and his partisans accomplished, you've
got to admit, a great deal against the Germans,
considering their limitations of resources.
So I became
convinced in my own mind that probably Most of the
people in Yugoslavia admired him, respected him.
He governed very effortlessly. He was one of those
leaders that didn't have to speak many words or
very loudly, it seemed. That's the impression you
get. And all of this makes a very fine impression on
any observer, Yugoslav or foreign. The fact is
that I doubt that any nation in the world has a more
effective police force than he had. And I've just
alluded to it to some degree. And so don't give all
the credit of everything going so smoothly and
quietly to Tito, because the consequences of not
going along are very severe. told Mr. Kennan, as a
matter of fact, upon departure, when I was
leaving, and again summarizing some of my views, I
said, I am convinced, he had great admiration for
Tito, and he felt, too, that the people respected
him so well, and I told him, I think I gave this same
view to him, but that I felt that if they had truly
democratic elections in Yugoslavia, and allowed
an opposition party to run on the platform of a
democratic form of government, almost
regardless of who that might be, that Tito would
get 15% of the vote. 15? And that the opposition
would get 85. Really? And I would have bet anything
on it. And in other words, you didn't feel like...
My reasoning was that There's about 3% of the
population who are members of the Communist Party
at that time. They've never had over five. There's
10%
that are dependent upon the Communist Party for
their jobs and their future. And then there's a
small percentage that really sympathize, very
small, in my opinion. You don't think that Tito,
after being that great war leader, was sort of a
national hero? He was, but if he'd offered a
democratic form of government, he'd been
defeated soundly, in my opinion. What did Mr.
Kennett say to that? This is not only from talking
to peasants. I didn't finish that conversation on
individuals, but I did find through those years
opportunities to talk with individuals, some of
them were prominent in the prior governments.
Where did Mr. Kennan respond? Well, he was still
just there a few months. I remember talking to a
very learned and prominent Serbian individual,
and he knows who I was. It's not often you can get
this opportunity. I had great respect for the
Serbs because Well, in this year of language
school, what I was really studying was Yugoslav
history and its military organization, customs,
terms, and so forth. And I got a lot of that history
that I'd never really studied before. And one
remarkable thing about the history of
Yugoslavia, which is now a grouping of nations,
former nations, you know, you've got Serbia,
you've got Croatia, Slovenia, Herzegovina. and
Macedonia. But anyway, the Serbs, when they were
invaded, captured, and taken over by the Turks,
were under the Turkish heel for 500 years. They
conducted 40 distinct revolutions and lost them
all. They were finally freed by the results of
World War won. But when that 500 years of Turkish
dominance was over, they still had pure Serbian
blood, they still had a pure Serbian language, and
they still had a pure Orthodox Serbian religion.
And I think that's remarkable. And I had never
really focused on a history of a people that was so I
thought valorous and so tenacious as theirs. So I
asked this prominent Serb in the course of this
conversation, I said, when are the Serbs going to
get rid of communism?
And citing my, noting their history of Turkish
times, he said, I don't know that we ever can. Much
as I and much as many of us would like to. But he said,
we have something that has never been seen before.
We have the most efficient police system
that dominates us that anyone has ever known. He
said, if I went to my best friend, and he and I
decided that we were obligated and determined to
do something to get rid of this communist
government, we would have to go to others to gain
enough strength that we could actually have the
power to do something. He said by the time he went to
his next best friend and I went to my next best
friend, we'd be found out. He said, I'm convinced
of that.
That's what the people dislike most. about the
Communist government, and that's one of the main
reasons that I say Tito wouldn't have won his
election if there was a Democratic alternative.
How'd you like being a diplomat instead of a
military man? I wasn't looking forward to that,
but I enjoyed it. And I must say that
we met very interesting people from all over the
world. It was a wonderful experience, the whole
thing, in all aspects. Uh, and the Yugoslav
government, being a neutralist government,
insisted we all mixed instead of in some, like in
some of our country, Western friendly countries,
you know, the, the Reds are kind of separated from
the West. Sure. But, uh, we enjoyed that very much
and we did, uh, a great deal of entertaining
ourselves, um, including not only the military
diplomats, but the, the ambassadors and others
and, and became, uh, pretty good friends with some
of them. Another hunter, by the way, was the
Swedish ambassador—Finnish ambassador, I'm
sorry—Vartti O'Vara. Of course, Finland is in a
peculiar situation. I remember I had my only sauna
bath in his embassy. They just can't live without
those saunas, and there were two saunas, too.
We bathed after dark so that after we had our bath we
could go and close our pores by rolling in the snow.
I caught pneumonia, damn near caught pneumonia.
But anyway, we met some very interesting people
and
never regretted it a minute, even though we didn't
want the job. Tell me about your relations with the
Russians. The Russians had a very fine staff of
diplomats. in Belgrade, because Yugoslavia was
very important to them from the standpoint of
controlling and diminishing the damage for no
other reason. I became very well acquainted with
their senior attache, military attache. I knew
some of their diplomats, but they were hard to get
to know, really. The Communist satellite
attachés seemed to be a different breed than this
Russian attaché. He was a combat soldier. He was a
colonel. The others all seemed to be political
officers in uniform and really weren't military
men, really weren't military men. But anyway,
Colonel Tarasevich and I became very good
personal friends, as a matter of fact. He and his
cohorts had a tiresome practice that they had to do
under instruction. Every time in whatever
formation, whether it was a diplomatic function
or an out-of-shape trip that the U.S. laws were
conducting or whatever, they had to make their
points of the day. They were obligated to, I guess,
by instruction. That got a little irritating, but
after we got that discussion over with- What do you
mean their points of the day? They had to discuss
the merits of communism? They had this- For
example, any significant point of difference
between the U.S. and Russia of the moment, they'd
state their position. One interesting one was,
you'll recall that President Kennedy shortly
after he was elected met with Khrushchev in
Austria and Vienna, and they had a very heated
argument, you'll recall, and Khrushchev
threatened President Kennedy with what he called
their rockets, their missiles,
intercontinental missiles, and made a big point
of this. Well, that created quite a stir, I don't
know whether you recall it or not, throughout the
international community, and so that was a good
example of just reinforcing with anyone who'd
listen Khrushchev's position in one, his
statement in one. As a matter of fact,
the Yugoslav Army was always trying to figure a way
to get the attachés together about every three
months and do something, either take them to
Tito's battlefield or go skiing or go hunting.
They had great pheasant and grouse hunting, for
example, and hare hunting in addition. That's the
kind they'd take the attachés on. And they kind of
ran out of things to do, so one time they organized a
shooting match. They had an Olympic-grade firing
ranges there in Belgrade, and so they were going to
have contests among the attachés firing the
service rifle of Yugoslavia, the 22 rifle, and the
service pistol.
So each country was competing against the other.
Well, and then we had a luncheon after the shooting
to have the prizes awarded.
And it was rather embarrassing to the Yugoslav
because the first three places in all three events
were won by American attachés.
And I was seated by Colonel Tartasevich, the
Russian attaché, and he turned to me with a glass of
Slivovitza He says, that is excellent shooting.
In Yugoslavia, of course, that is excellent
shooting. He said, I fear that we're not as good as
we should be today with the small arms. But he said,
we sure are good with those rockets. And then
laughed,
you know. And I couldn't help but laugh, too. But we
became good friends. We couldn't discuss
politics, international politics, very long
without getting into an argument. But I had him in
my home several times. I never was in his. Why not,
do you think? It would not have been right for him
to. He could accept an invitation to my home, but he
could not bring me into his. That is, to a small
party. He's had all attitudes there. Sure. He
couldn't show any favoritism toward you. He was a
great fisherman. He always asked me to go fishing
with him. In fact, one time when we had he and his
wife and the Polish I had to share with his wife and
one of my assistants and his wife for a small
dinner.
After dinner, during the course of the party,
Tarasiewicz asked me, when are you going to go
hunting with me? I said, well, I've got to go
fishing. I do like to fish. He said, well, I go every
Sunday, and I'm going next Sunday. I think this was
a Friday night. And he said, I'd like for you to go
with me. I said, I'll go. And he said, fine. So he
kind of let it drop, and as he was leaving, he said,
by the way, he said, we'll leave from such and such a
place, you know, to go on that fishing trip. And he
said, are you going to bring your wife? I said, oh,
no, she doesn't. She detests fishing. He said,
well, my wife's going to insist. She loves to fish.
And I said, oh, I can't. My wife, I couldn't get her
to go. Why don't you and I just go alone? And it
became very clear that he couldn't go alone. And he
thought probably the most liberal course he could
take would be to take his wife.
But anyway, and his wife was a nice person, sort of.
sturdy peasant type, but a very fine person.
They're children, by the way. But you never did go
fishing? Never did go fishing, and it was my fault
because the next day some, I forget who, but some
senior officer came to Belgrade and I had to attend
him, so I had to call it off. And by the way, I'm not so
sure about what he felt that I was getting out of it,
but I don't think he did.
But, uh, Well, were you happy to leave after living
in Yugoslavia for two years? I was ready to go. I
think Fran could have enjoyed another year
because she very much enjoyed that. She was very
busy with it. All of these official functions and
social events included her. I traveled over
Yugoslavia, much of Yugoslavia, and frequently
took her with me. And there was a purpose to those
travels. And really, it was to observe. And I and my
assistants just, on a pattern, covered that whole
country constantly. And I guess I can say now- You
sent back information back to Washington? Yes. I
think I can say, you know, it was a licensed
operation, you might say. Everybody knew. Now, we
were more- had more privilege to travel than did
the Communist Bloc because they couldn't travel
freely. So they favored the Americans. Because of
our aid to them, you see. Now we had to stay off
military installations unless invited, and we
had to stay off certain kilometers out of the
border areas, but other than that we could travel.
Fran enjoyed that too. She was always a little
nervous about leaving the children, of course.
poor little children. Our fourth was born there.
And Chris, our third, had been born at the War
College. But she had a good nursemaid and a good
housekeeper. And
the government paid for the servants save one. If
you needed four, they'd pay for three. And I think
that was a fair way to do it. In other words, that was
to ensure that you didn't go overboard, I guess.
Sure.
Did you work with CIA people?
I may have. But wasn't there CIA people right in the
embassy? They were not identified if they were. So
the staff was the ambassador and his State
Department assistants, and then the military had
a chase. Well, we had, yes. There was one from each?
There was one from the Air Force, Army, and Navy?
Yes. And of course, he had a very big political
department, and a very big economic department,
with secretaries, first secretary in charge of
each. We worked very closely, of course, with both
of them, but primarily the political.
And then you left Yugoslavia in 1961 for a very
short assignment as the executive officer of the
2nd Infantry Division Artillery, and you only
stayed there for four- gee whiz, for two months.
Two months, uh-huh. And what was that, sort of a
holding pattern? No, that was another
interesting thing. Where was that? Fort Benning,
Georgia, 2nd Infantry Division Artillery. I was
the executive officer. It was a very interesting
circumstance. I had just come back from
Yugoslavia at what was considered an undesirable
tour because, as I mentioned, we enjoyed it, but it
was considered to be an undesirable tour,
and assigned to the job I wanted. I asked to be
assigned to a division artillery. And I thought
that was a very good reward for whatever kind of a
job I'd done, because they respected that wish.
But about the time I got started there, this
Cuban thing, I mean, this Berlin thing came up.
Berlin Wall. Berlin Wall and that crisis. This
added to Khrushchev's threat, had put the U.S.
Army and Armed Forces into partial mobilization.
And then
this division was placed in a status to be deployed
if this thing went further. And I was removed
because of my recent return from overseas. In
other words, I was not deployable.
Because you just came back from overseas and
because you probably didn't have enough
experience to act as the executive officer in case
of a crisis? No, that had nothing to do with it. I
simply was not deployable by assignment
policies. Oh, I see. And so they didn't want me to be
there and then have to leave the day before the
division left and have a guy come in completely
green. And so they sent me to Fort Sill, which was
kind of like throwing the rabbit out into the briar
patch where he wants to be. Where you were deputy
director of the Department of Gunnery and Office
of Combat Development and Doctrine in the
Artillery and Missile School. Tell me, did you
teach in that function? I had lunch. Huh, what?
Lunch is ready. Okay, we'll be in just a minute. No,
I did not teach. The gunnery department, of
course, is one of the key departments of the
artillery school, and I was very happy to be there.
I'd come in there very suddenly, you see, really,
with very little planning time for the school.
There's another one of those cases where I'd been
sent to Fort Sill and they really didn't have a job
for me. And so you were only there for just a few
months, too, four months, November 61 to March 62.
Were you just sort of waiting for more permanence?
Well, by the time I'd been there this short time,
then I was aligned to take over this combat
developments department. And so I went in there as
deputy for a while until the director left.